## Week Two - Module 2 Recap

Fork this respository. Answer the questions to the best of your ability. Try to answer them with limited amount of external research. These questions cover the majority of what we've learned this week (which is a TON - YOU are a web developer!!!).

Note: When you're done, submit a PR.

1. At a high level, what is ActiveRecord? What does it do/allow you to do?  

    ActiveRecord is the ORM that we're using with Rails, and it allows us to query the database to retrieve specific information.

2. Assume you have the following model:

  ```ruby
  class Team << ActiveRecord::Base
  end
  ```

  What are some methods you can call on `Team`? If these methods aren't defined in the class, how do you have access to them?   
  Some methods available through this inheritance include .joins, .select, .where, .count, .group, & .group. Even though these aren't defined in the class, we get access through the inheritance. If you opened up the Base class file from ActiveRecord, we could see all the defined methods that we then get access to; if this class has inherited from somewhere, we would also get access to them through inheritance.

3. Assume that in your database, a team has the following attributes: "id", "name", owner_id". How would you find the name of a team with an id of 4? Assuming your class only included the code from question 2, how could you find the owner of the same team?  
  ```ruby
  Team.find(4).name
  ```
  ```ruby
  Owner.find(Team.find(4).owner_id))
  ```

4. Assume that you added a line to your `Team` class as follows:

  ```ruby
  class Team << ActiveRecord::Base
    belongs_to :owner
  end
  ```

  Now how would you find the owner of the team with an id of 4?  

  ```ruby
    team = Team.find(4)
    team.owner
  ```
5. In a database that's holding students and teachers, what will be the relationship between students and teachers? Draw the schema diagram.  

  Students belong to a teacher. A teacher has many students.

  The students table would have three columns: id, name, and teacher_id (foreign key to access info about the teacher associated with the specific student).

  The teacher table would have two columns: id and name.

  At the model level, we would add ```belongs_to :teacher``` in student.rb and ```has_many :students``` in teacher.rb.

6. Define foreign key, primary key, and schema.  

  A foreign key corresponds to the id of another table, and it's a way that resources can be linked together. A primary key is the unique identifier for a resource; typically, the id generated by the database upon creation of a resource is the primary key, but you are able to change the primary key if needed.  

  Schema is the current status of the database. It lists out the table name, columns, and data types for each column. The schema is created the first time you run a migration, and it updates to include any changes to migrations whenever the command ```rake db:migrate``` is run.

7. Describe the relationship between a foreign key on one table and a primary key on another table.  

  The foreign key on a table is the primary key on another table.

8. What are the parts of an HTTP response?

  Response code, message that corresponds to the code, header, and body.

### Optional Questions

1. Name your five favorite ActiveRecord methods (i.e. methods your models inherit from ActiveRecord) and describe what they do.  

  order: this method orders the data according to the parameters you specify (can order by a specific column. it defaults to ascending order, so include DESC in the argument if you want it sorted in descending order.

  select: this method allows you to determine which information you want to include in a query; you can select all information from a table by writing tablename.*

  where: this method selects all resources that meet the query criteria; I like that this method allows you to set certain max/min values and then select only the resources that fall in the criteria.

  maximum: this method returns the value of the maximum value in the column that's passed in as an argument;

  pluck: this method returns values in a column from a collection, and these values are returned as an array.

2. Name your three favorite ActiveRecord rake tasks and describe what they do.  

  rake db:test:prepare updates the test database to include the most up to date schema.

  rake db:create_migration allows you to create a migration.

  rake db:migrate runs your migrations to update the schema and the database.

3. What two columns does `t.timestamps null: false` create in our database?  

  created_at and updated_at

4. In a database that's holding schools and teachers, what will be the relationship between schools and teachers?  

  This is a one to many relationship because a school has many teachers but teachers only belong to a single school (unless we're talking about social workers/nurses/coaches who split time between multiple schools).

  The teachers table will have a foreign key of school_id in order to relate these two separate resources.

5. In the same database, what will you need to do to create this relationship (draw a schema diagram)?

  I would have to add a foreign key of school id to the teacher table, add ```belongs_to :school``` in the teacher.rb model and add ```has_many :teachers``` in the school.rb model.

6. Give an example of when you might want to store information besides ids on a join table.

  ??

7. Describe and diagram the relationship between patients and doctors.  

  This is a many to many relationship because doctors have many patients and patients have many doctors. In this case, we'll need to use a joins table to connect these resources.

  The joins table could be named ``` patient_doctors ``` and at the model level, both patient.rb and doctor.rb would need to add ```has_many patient_doctors```; patient would then need to add ```has_many :doctors, through patient_doctors``` and doctor would add ```has_many :patients, through patient_doctors```

  On the ```patient_doctors``` table, each row would include a doctor_id and patient_id in order to demonstrate a single connection between a doctor and a patient.

8. Describe and diagram the relationship between museums and original_paintings.

  This is a one to many relationship because an original_painting belongs to a single museum, but a museum may have many different original paintings.

  db level: foreign key of museum_id will be on the original_paintings table.

  model level for original_painting.rb: ```belongs_to :museum```
  model level for museum.rb: ```has_many :original_paintings```

9. What could you see in your code that would make you think you might want to create a partial?

  (?) If two views are always connected together and render the same information, I might create a partial so that any changes in one place would automatically be made in the other location.
